Now I'm asking that you
say something so this will record. Let's pick you
up over there. Okay. What do you want to talk about?
I wish we could talk about what a nice week it's
been. Well, I want an idea.
Now let's see if it's doing any better in between
us. Let's see. Give your name, rate, horsepower,
age, and everything else. I'm Joan Rowe. My
horsepower is about zero right now. I'm 58. I'm
still going to be 59.
Today is February 27, and we're starting late in
the morning at 6139 Berwyn in Dallas. And I have the
pleasure of talking to Bob Latimer, class of 44,
who was president of the association in 1972. Bob,
why did you go to A&M in the first place?
Well, I was graduating from high school in Fort
Worth in 1940. Having grown up through the 30s,
Everyone knew that World War II was coming. We
didn't know what it would be called. We didn't know
how it would start or anything else. But we knew it
was impending.
That was one force of thought. Another was that
everyone,
at least it was very clear to me, having gone to
grade school at Bayard, Texas, and high school in
Fort Worth, that the only people that were going to
get anywhere in this world had to have a college
education. Now, my family didn't have any money,
and I set out to find scholarships wherever I
could. As it turned out,
as my search had gone past, well, Had to settle for
TCU in Fort Worth and then in track at Arlington,
neither of which I cared for. And I tried for the
military academies. So I was
really searching and A&M seemed beyond my reach
until my uncle, class of 02, informed me of the
newly created opportunity award scholarship.
And the requirements for those as set out were the
student had to have good grades and to have his note
for $150 a year be endorsed by an A&M club. When I
understood that, I felt like I had the grades to do
it. My uncle, though he had been long prominent in
the association of former students, was not in a
position to provide any tuition. I didn't look for
any from him. But the
way I went about it was to court the fourth A&M club
Every time they had a meeting, I went. And they got
to know me and know me well. And so as the selection
process evolved, well, I was granted one of the
original Opportunity Award scholarships. And
how did you get to College Station when your first
visit down there? Well, one of my first visits, was
at the end of school in 1940, at the end of A&M. My
good friend Bob Halton, Bobby Halton, he was part
of the Halton Jewish family in Fort Worth. His
mother and father took him and they took me down to
pick up his brother who was G.W. Holden, who was the
class of 42.
And that's the first time I saw her. Basically, I
only saw the then-new dorms as they finished their
first year. And we loaded up the car and went back to
Fort Worth. Then that fall, when you go as a
student, how did you get down there? Well, I was
part of a a rather active group in Fort Worth
Basketball and Arlington Heights High School.
There was a big network of high school
fraternities and sororities and they had
frequent dances. And the time for me to go A&M was a
week ahead of time due to the fact that, I don't
think I mentioned earlier, The scholarship not
only included getting a note endorsed by the Fort
Worth A&M Club, but also would provide, while I was
at school, a job that paid $150. Well, my job was to
be a janitor. And that year, someone had the idea
that it would be a good idea to train all the student
janitors in janitoring. which included
mastering the mysteries of dormitory plumbing.
Well, they called for all of us would-be janitors
to be there a week early. And so the time for me to go,
I went to a dance at the Fort Worth Casino and had a
friend get me into downtown Fort Worth in time for
the 11 o'clock Owl, Missouri Pacific train. And I
rode that through the night and got thrown off the
train at 5.30 in the morning at the College Station
Station. And not even having been in that spot
before, all I could do was after my footlocker on my
back, and go up to the YMCA. And I got up on the main
floor, found one of those old porcelain couches,
and lay down and finished the night until other
people arrived. All right. Describe A&M
physically in 1940 when you arrived. Well, it was,
of course it was, this was
September the 11th I believe was the date, but it
had been a hot summer and there wasn't much
evidence of any moisture in the soil, so it was
dusty everywhere.
The walk from The railroad station to Hawaii was
not arduous. It just took a while. Law and Ferrier
Halls were there. The Beagle Stand was out at the
intersection of the walks.
And it was
those buildings, the buildings there at the time
were, of course, I didn't know
it was sold. So I waited until people came awake and
went over and reported to where they told us to. And
then I set about trying to adjust to the pattern.
All right. Was the new core dorm area finished
then? It had been finished. 1939. Where did you
live your freshman year? Well that first week I was
in Leggett because that's close to where they had
their school and when I was assigned a unit that was
my my friend Haltman and I had applied to be
roommates and that was granted and we were
assigned to be and H battery coast artillery which
was assigned the top two floors of Mitchell Hall.
Now how did you happen to get that unit coast
artillery? Well I fight for coast artillery. I've
been an aviation dog all my high school life and I
desperately wanted to get into flying and they
said that Part of the coach artillery's job was
anti-aircraft, so I figured that was as close as
you could get, and that set up fair. Did you have the
impression that people normally got the branch
they requested, or was that unusual? In general,
they got what they asked for. There was such a
great, I guess you'd say, a great number that
didn't have any idea what it was about. And they
obviously weren't trying to leave it to us. Oh,
yes, yes.
That
first week was a rather interesting one. Wendell
Horsley was a great guy and later famous as a
placement office man. I was attracted to him. He
would always give me a friendly smile or a wink. I
adjusted to the rigors of no sheets or anything
else in the old double deck bunks there in Leggett
and got to the end of the week without The thing that
was notable about that is I got a little bit of
insight into the school before the upperclassmen
came in. Now, were most of the trainees in this
janitorial program, were most of those freshmen?
No, I think I was unusual. Oh, okay. I say I got used
to it. I bought some sheets, so I had sheets and kind
of took care of my own business.
The thing that, well,
the action began to happen on the following
weekend, and the janitor's school was finished,
and by then I...
more awareness, but certainly not any more
knowledge of the dormitory plumbing than I had
before. Fortunately, my assignment in the
janitorial job was the book stacks in the back of
the library. In Cushing? In Cushing. Oh. And
there's a number of stories that go with that. But
as far as getting started, it was all a mystery. And
how Paulton and I were assigned room 77 in Mitchell
Hall, we don't know. But we went over there to,
well,
on Saturday when he came and the rest of them came,
we began to filter in and find our places. Well, the
sophomores and the juniors and seniors were
coming around and beginning to look at places and
see what was there and see where they were. Now
there, of course, the fifth year men, we had four of
them, and the seniors knew they got corner rooms
and juniors got whatever was left in their
favorite room. We were on the, they called every
floor a stoop. And Alden and I were on the fourth
stoop. And Mitchell was in the shape of a figure
eight. So there was an inner courtyard. We were on
the fourth floor.
I guess at courtyard was about 50 feet square and
pavement on the bottom concrete so that any time a
bottle or any other vulnerable piece of glassware
landed it not only hit and splattered within there
a heck of a racket but probably four stories four
stories of walls up there so uh But we got in and
began to get, we very quickly were organized by the
sophomores and indoctrinated that we had to speak
to everybody and we had our names and then on was
fish so and so and everyone else was mister and we
had a fish strike it was called which was about a
three-eighths of an inch white band around our
left cuff on our shirts, on the press uniforms
while we just didn't have any
service bar for a year. Describe the issue of
uniforms that the typical student had. How many
changes of what did you have? Well, of course we
were the Every student,
well I say every student, almost every student had
to be in the Corps of Cadets. We were enrolled, we
went through over at the assembly hall which was
then replaced by a chapel and then the assembly
hall they had a They arranged for it to provide
clothing. Assembly Hall and the Exchange Store,
which was not far from, it was east of Leggett. We
were issued,
as I recall,
with two khaki shirts, a tie,
a wool blouse with blue lapels,
and wool pants, and
I don't know what they call it. Socks? Shoe. Socks,
shoes? No shoes and no socks. So you provided that.
Yes. And did you have the little, what we would
later call overseas caps yet? What did you wear on
your head? Well, we had the garrison caps. Oh,
okay. The round ones. Okay. And we also had
overseas caps. Okay. And... On the... On the...
overseas cap, there was a distinctive colored
braid to denote the branch that you were in. In our
case, we were artillery, so we had the right red
band. And did you, were you quickly reminded that
you must speak in Aggie slang and lingo? Well, you
knew you, uh, about the Second or third day, you
began to get indoctrinated.
My thought process at the moment is getting a
uniform on day, like on the Saturday and Sunday of
Monday. And the first night that everybody was
there, which would have been the Sunday night,
before, maybe Saturday before school started.
But all us freshmen were bunked up. And every
class, there was no mixing of classes in a single
room. Every room had either freshmen or
sophomores or whatever the class was. But there
was no mix. But about midnight, why, at the end of
the shack, it occurred out in the hall. And so we
stuck our head out to see what was going on, and
there was a fire, fire, fire. And there were kids
running up and down all over and hear the
expression, come on president, come on
president, come on president, it's on
the fly. Every poor face got to stand up and shake,
and I don't believe a drop hit. With all that had
been heard and all of the apprehension and scared
to death of what was going to happen next, I don't
think that job hit them. And that old floor, old
Mitchell with the wooden floor placement, the
floor was well worn. So there really was a fire? Oh,
yeah. There's some paper right there. Oh, okay.
And this was probably not the first time that, game
had been played? Well, it was for us. No, but I mean,
you think... I expect those sophomores had some
experience. That's what I was wondering. Now, did
y'all use the same... was the slang then about what
it is now as far as you know? Y'all were fish and your
roommate was your old lady? Well, I...
I would submit... that the 1990s version
is basically more severe in a number of ways.
We didn't have anybody shouting at us, per se, like
what has been carried over from the Marine Corps,
per se.
and all that sort of thing. We didn't have any of
that. The freshman had to walk in the streets. If
the freshman saw, well, they spoke to everyone,
but if the freshman saw an upperclassman of his
outfit, he spoke to Mr. So-and-so, and if Mr.
So-and-so was talking to somebody else, The
freshman either knew the other person's name and
called it, or else he went up and met him,
introduced himself, and then went on his way. That
was, and to overlook introducing or speaking to an
upperclassman's friend or acquaintance was
really a serious business. Now, I'll back up a
moment to say that I was on my guard about things
because I had in some way acquired the book Fish
Sergeant. Have you seen Fish Sergeant? Fish
Sergeant was a little book about It's been
reprinted. And
Fish Sargent was a story of a kid named Fish Hooks.
And it went through all of the general repeated
type So
I
was on my guard and I didn't jump at everything and I
wasn't quite, with all due respect to my buddies, I
wasn't quite the sucker as a lot of them were.
Alright, so this book was kind of a, for you, a kind
of a A guide. A guide. A guide, but you know, I had
read that thing through and through before I went
down there because I was so apprehensive about all
of the
things in life at all that put me in depression.
Tell me about, where did y'all eat, and tell me
about the chow hall routine. Well, let me get over
one more. Oh, I'm sorry.
Let's say everybody was there on Sunday night. I
think it was the 18th, I'm not sure. Everybody was
there on Sunday night. But we've been through the
week during which, beginning the first night,
everybody was there. All the freshmen were
gathered into a single room, and as many
sophomores as we could crowd in. The freshmen were
all sitting on the floor. And the
sophomore proceeded to lecture on what it took to,
quote, get the fish on the line, as dictated by the
juniors and seniors. Now, other than running,
details which are airing for our upperclassmen,
let's say the juniors and seniors, the freshmen
jumped to the sophomores primarily. The
sophomores were responsible for the behavior of
the freshmen. Sure. And if the freshmen got lagged
or didn't perform well or maybe just because the
upperclassmen didn't like it anyway, why the
freshmen would take it out. seniors take it out on
the junior, and the junior take it out on the
sophomore.
Well, number one in this whole story is that we
didn't, we were not touched by a board until after
Thanksgiving. The,
but a bleed meeting would consist of all the
instructions of walking in the street, speaking,
meeting, Yes, sir. There were no, no exaggerated.
Yes, sir. Or all that sort of none of that stuff.
There was no shoe polishing. There's no brass box
for the class. Every cadet did his own.
The later years, all of my things thought that the
notion of shining shoes and and so on and just into
all of it. Were there any things that you now look
back on that you think of were inappropriate
hazing in your days?
No, not really. There have been some rough times at
A&M. I mean by that, oh, I think it was in the 30s.
seven or eight while I was there. There was a big
furor over the possibility the railroad might
move the station in the blind. The field artillery
got out there with their 75 guns and lined them up on
the tracks and informed the railroad they were
going to have a station there.
No, but I mentioned that but also there had been a
couple of pretty rough incidents and so the word
was out early on that nobody would get the board
until after Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving of
course was the mid-semester break The grades were
out and then you'd see how many were going to be
there. The most telling thing of all of that was
that Dr. Brayden, who was a venerable and
long-time
theater and chemistry department.
B-R-A-Y-H-R Brayden.
We went to his first chemistry lecture. I was in
engineering, an old freshman taking engineering
at an identical curriculum.
I never shall forget the first day I sat in that
chemistry lecture room. There were about 330 boys
in there. And the first thing he said was, look at
the guy in front of you and the one behind you. One on
your right and one on your left. He said there'd be
one of you graduates.
I guess among everybody that was the most telling
statement that they'd encountered. Did that add
to your determination? Oh yeah. But I had to be
under my bonnet because I didn't have enough money
to go anywhere.
My father had money when I was younger, but it was
not available when I came around. But I was
determined to do the best I could at A&M to get the
best job opportunity when I got out. And that's all
I needed. All right, let's go back to the chow hall
now. Tell me about meals and where they were and
what the routine was.
Meals were at, I think I'm right, 7 a.m., noon, and
5.45 p.m.
There would be a whistle in the dawn five minutes
ahead of time to And we were in Mitchell Hall, which
is now where the
infirmary is. But that was on the, we were the
nearest, and across the military walk was the, we
were the nearest dorms to Sbisa. And when
everybody was in position, All the way down
military wall.